# Ising_model_2D
# Introduction
This code consists of a numerical simulation of the 2D Ising model on a square lattice using the Metropolis algorithm. The Ising model is one of the simpler description of a magnet; it consists of nearest neighbour interactions between spins sitting on lattice sites. In this model, the spins are constained to point either up or down and if the nereast neighbours are parallel the system minimises its energy whereas the antiparallel configuration is penalised. The main concept is that the Ising model on a square lattice exhibits a phase transition. In fact, at low temperature the system wants to minimise its energy and therefore it sits in one of the two ferromagnetic ground states (all spins up or all spins down). As the temperature is raised entropy becomes relavant and consequently the equilibrium configuration is achieved when the system is disordered (paramagnet). There is therefore a potential mechanism for a phase transition connecting the two different behaviours. Phase transitions are characterised by an order parameter, which is a quantity that is zero above a critical temeprature and non-zero below. In this case, it is given by the magnetisation per spin which measures the average spin of the system; it is expected to be one at zero temperature and zero at infinite temperature.
# Code
This code aims at calculating the average magnetisation per spin as a function of temperature to show that it behaves as an order parameter which abruptly changes to zero near the critical temperature. The magnetisation of the system should be calculated after the system has reached a thermal equilibirum. The physical idea is that the system starts from a random configuration; it is then connected to a thermal bath at a fixed temperature; after some time it thermalises (equilibrium). This thermalisation process is modelled using the Metropolis algorithm. The first step is to chose an initial configuration (usually all spins up) and randomly one spin on the lattice. The next ste is to calculate the difference in energy between the initial states and the state where the selected spin hase been flipped. If this energy is negative the spin is flipped; otherwise, it is only flipped with a probability given by the Gibbs measure. This procedure is repeated many times; it correponds physically to the sytems flowing towards thermal equilibrium at a given temperature. The code also shows an animation which corresponds to the thermalisation process.
